feat: add CKB Features in tech explaination (#706)
nervosnetwork/docs.nervos.org: website/docs/tech-explanation/quantum-resistance.md

Most major blockchains, including Bitcoin and Ethereum, rely on **Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC)** to derive addresses and sign transactions. A sufficiently powerful quantum computer running [Shor’s Algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shor%27s_algorithm) could effectively calculate a private key from a public key, rendering the security of these networks obsolete.

While the industry is standardizing defenses (e.g., NIST's PQC competition), the **implementation path** differs drastically between other blockchains and CKB. CKB does not merely hope to survive the quantum era, it was architected to embrace it.

## Why CKB is native quantum-resistant

Most blockchains struggle with the quantum-resistant problem with two main reasons. CKB is native quantum-resistant not because it outperforms the other blockchains in solving these two problems, but because it is designed from the first principle, which doesn't have those two problems in the first place.

### The hardcoded Cryptographic Primitives problem

> The fundamental flaw in most Layer 1 blockchains is that their cryptographic primitives are **hardcoded** into the consensus protocol. This rigidity creates one massive hurdle: the "Hard Fork" crisis. If you want to upgrade to quantum-resistant cryptography, you must coordinate a hard fork with the entire network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fundamental flaw in most Layer 1 blockchains is that their cryptographic primitives are **hardcoded** into the consensus protocol. This rigidity creates one massive hurdle: the "Hard Fork" crisis. If you want to upgrade to quantum-resistant cryptography, you must coordinate a network-wide hard fork.
```

CKB doesn't face such a problem, since the verification of signatures is done by separting the rule(Lock Script) from the proof(Witness). There are also mechanisms for grouping the same Lock Scripts so multiple inputs can share one signature in the transaction Witnesses. That makes moving 100 Cells with SPHINCS+ signatures as simple as moving 1 Cell with SPHINCS+ signature. You can learn more about this in [Script Group Execution](/docs/tech-explanation/script-group-exe) and [Witness](/docs/tech-explanation/witness).

## What CKB has achieved

### Implementation Details: SPHINCS+ on CKB

In 2023, The CKB team and Cryptape researchers have successfully implemented a production-ready **Quantum Resistant Lock Script** using **SPHINCS+**. In August 2024, NIST has finally approved SPHINCS+ as a quantum-resistant digital signature algorithm in its FIPS 205 standard. In 2025, The CKB team started to deploy SPHINCS+ Lock Script on the CKB mainnet.

- **Repository:** [cryptape/quantum-resistant-lock-script](https://github.com/cryptape/quantum-resistant-lock-script)

> 

Reviewer: Suggest to add note we finished security audit partner with ScaleBit.
After they uploaded the report to their offcial website, we can add the report link here.
